This 3-cheese lasagna is the ultimate comfort food and the ingredients are refrigerator and pantry staples. See the recipe card below for quantities and full instructions.

Ingredients:


Ground beef – We used 80/20 beef (20% fat content) for a juicier lasagna.
Onion – we use yellow onion, or sweet onion works well
Garlic cloves – you can add more if you love garlic
Red wine (or beef broth) – This amps up the flavor of your sauce (avoid using cooking wine).
Marinara sauce – Use homemade marinara or store-bought.
Dried thyme – Italian seasoning, basil, or oregano can be substituted
Sugar – balances the acidity of the tomatoes
Parsley – flat-leaf or curly parsley works well
Lasagna noodles – Cook these al dente; they’ll continue to soften as the lasagna bakes.
Cottage cheese – adds great texture and moisture
Ricotta cheese – we use low-fat or part-skim ricotta
Mozzarella cheese – An Italian cheese blend works, but mozzarella is definitely the classic choice
Egg – helps hold the cheese layer together

How to Make Lasagna:

If you’d like to get a head start on this recipe, you can make the meat sauce a day or two in advance. That said, it’s still easy enough that you can make it all in one go, even for a weeknight dinner.

Brown the beef – Add oil to a deep pan and sautee onion and beef until browned, 5 minutes then add garlic and stir another minute.
Finish the sauce – Pour in 1/4 cup of wine and stir until almost evaporated. Add marinara, salt, pepper, thyme, sugar, and parsley; bring to a simmer, then cover and cook 5 minutes.
Make the cheese filling – Combine all of the cheese sauce ingredients and 1 cup of mozzarella in a mixing bowl (reserve the rest for later).
Prep – Preheat your oven to 375ºF and cook the lasagna noodles in a pot of well-salted water until al dente.
Assemble – Spread 1/2 cup of the meat sauce on the bottom of a 9×13-inch casserole dish. Add 3 noodles, followed by 1/3 of the meat sauce, 1 cup of mozzarella, and half of the ricotta mixture. Repeat, then for the top layer, add 3 noodles, 1/3 of the meat sauce, and the remaining mozzarella.
Bake – Cover with foil and bake at 375˚F for 45 minutes, then remove the foil and broil for 3 to 5 minutes, or until the cheese is lightly browned.
Rest – Let the lasagna rest for about 30 minutes before cutting and serving. 